Additions to FEP0008 (#7)
kadet1090/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals: FEPs/FEP-0008-project-group-structure/README.md

selected from active contributors who have been engaged with the community for a significant time,
review PRs and issues, participate in project meetings, and adhere to the Code of Conduct.

> ### Authority and Accountability
> 
> Maintainers hold the **sole authority** to make decisions on behalf of the Project. With this authority comes responsibility. Responsibility for any decision rests both **with the individual Maintainer** who makes or implements that decision and, **collectively, with all Maintainers**. In line with this responsibility, Maintainers may be **requested or required**, as appropriate, to:
> - reconsider or withdraw a decision;
> - take corrective actions to remedy outcomes arising from a decision; and/or
> - tender their resignation.

Reviewer: I think this is simultaneously too harshly worded, and too vague to be actionable. It also doesn't quite reflect present reality, and IMO it should. So I propose something more like:
```suggestion
### Authority and Accountability

Maintainers hold the **sole authority** to make decisions on behalf of the Project. Maintainers operate on a consensus basis whenever possible, and a rough consensus basis when full consensus cannot be achieved. All decisions from a Maintainer should be interpreted as a decision on behalf of the whole body of Maintainers. However, mistakes can happen, and decisions may need to be revisited. If a member of the FreeCAD community feels that a mistake has been made (for example, a PR merged when it shouldn't have been, or closed when it should have been merged), they should reach out to a member of the Maintainers team to request reconsideration. Maintainers have the responsibility to take these requests into consideration a part of their larger responsibility to the health of the project as a whole.
```

Author: Thanks, @chennes. My intent is to keep the language direct about accountability. I see “requesting resignation” as the broad, role-related remedy available in exceptional cases; I don’t want the policy to suggest that Maintainers are insulated from consequences. To avoid punitive framing, I’m focusing on role responsibility: the realistic consequence we can ask for is stepping down from the Maintainer role.

To clarify my intent: Maintainer authority is legitimacy that comes from delegated trust. Decisions made in good faith under that authority should be presumed legitimate and should not attract punitive sanctions. Unless there is clear abuse or bad-faith conduct, a Maintainer should not be “punished” or have their authority revoked; the realistic project-level remedy is to ask them to step down. This is similar to many public institutions where accountability is exercised through resignation rather than punitive measures.

Reviewer 2: The wording from @chennes still keeps that spirit and is written in less harsh to read way - let's go with that suggestion.

## Working Groups

A **Working Group** is a team of community members (not necessarily developers) who work together
toward a defined set of goals. Working Groups are typically permanent and cover broad areas of
interest, such as UI/UX, infrastructure, code quality, or CAD industry practices. Groups may focus
on development, infrastructure, policies, or other project-related topics.

> Working Groups have no special decision-making authority unless explicitly delegated by the Maintainers; even in such cases, responsibility rests with the Maintainer(s) who grant and oversee that authority. Their primary function is to act as an advisory body. Working Groups shall not be held responsible for any decisions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working Groups have no special decision-making authority unless explicitly delegated by the Maintainers; even in such cases, responsibility rests with the Maintainers, who grant and oversee that authority. Their primary function is to act as an advisory body. Working Groups shall not be held responsible for any decisions.
```
